# International-Non-Governmental-Organizations-Datasets-

Overview of the Data

International non-governmental organizations (INGOs) have had unprecedented growth over the past several decades and have become important players in international politics. Some call INGOs the ‘third sector’ in global politics, after states and businesses (Kallman and Clark 2016). Today, policymakers worldwide must contemplate INGOs' influence on many issue areas, including economic and social development, environmental policy, gender equality, and human rights.

There is no ready-to-use, publicly-available data source in the literature for researchers wishing to analyze INGOs systematically. There are a variety of online data sources, but none are based on identified inclusion criteria. The INGO datasets introduced here address this research need by identifying only UN-accredited INGOs across the world. For each INGO, additional information is provided, including INGOs’ start and end years of UN-consultative status, areas of expertise, countries of operation, and millennium development goals. Two datasets are constructed: one of INGOs and the other of INGOs at the state-year level of analysis. Both datasets can be integrated with other datasets, facilitating engagement with a broad range of research questions. While the INGO-level dataset provides information for 6,595 INGOs from 1816 to 2022, the state-level dataset includes 15,024 state-year observations from 1946 to 2022. The United Nations Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC) iCSO database is the key definitional source-identifying INGOs for data collection. Additional information on ECOSOC-identified INGOs was also obtained from open sources, such as INGOs’ own websites, INGO portals, and the U.N. digital library (the U.N. decisions and resolutions).
